Matthew two.
Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king,
Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying,
Where is he who has been born King of the Jews?
For we saw his star as it rose.
And have come to worship him
When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled.
And all Jerusalem with him,
In assembling all the chief priests and the scribes and the people
He inquired of them where the Christ was to be born.
They told him
in Bethlehem of Judea
For so it is written by the prophet,
And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers.
of Judah.
For from you shall come a ruler
who will shepherd my people Israel.
Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly.
And ascertained from them what time the star had appeared
And he sent them
to Bethlehem saying
Go and search diligently for the child and when you have found him
Bring me word.
that I too may come.
And worship him.
After listening to the king they went on their way and behold the star that they had seen
When it rose
Went before them.
Until they came to rest over the place where
The child was.
When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
And going into the house
They saw the child with his mother
Mary, his mother,
And they fell down and worshipped him.
In opening their treasures
They offered him gifts.
Gold and frankincense and myrrh.
And being worn in a dream not to return to Herod,
They deported to their own country by another way.
There are two ways to deal with Jesus.
And I'm thinking of you tonight who are here
who do not yet worship Jesus as your supreme treasure?
There are two ways to deal with Jesus.
The way of Herod,
And the way of the wise men.
The way of herod is to try to get rid of jesus
it was.
Pure hypocrisy.
When Herod said, "Bring me word about the child so I can come and worship him."
He had no intention to worship Jesus.
He intended to get rid of Jesus.
In fact, within a matter of days,
He would kill all the baby boys in Bethlehem, two years old and younger.
But his effort to get rid of Jesus, as you know,
Failed,
And it will always
They are.
The way of Herod.
Always
Fails.
Nowadays we can't kill Jesus.
He's already died.
and risen
And rain's in heaven tonight
Over this assembly
And he will come again.
So we have come up with war.
Sophisticated ways, less violent,
To get rid of Jesus.
The most common way to get rid of Jesus
Is to recreate him in our minds
in a way that
Gets rid of his claim upon us
So he's
A legend
Or a mere moral teacher
We're a prophet.
Or a symbol you can put on your wall, a symbol of hope.
Around your neck.
When I was in graduate school in Europe in
the nineteen seventies there was a well-known book called jesus for atheists
And lo and behold,
Milan makovic
Discovered at last after 2,000 years
That the real Jesus is the perfect embodiment
Of 20Th Century marxism
And he's gone.
And Marxism will go
And we're still trying to get rid of Jesus by reinventing him in the
Ideological images so that he just fits
Instead of laying any claim on us
At all.
The Herod way of dealing with Jesus
It never worked. It never will work. You cannot get rid of Jesus.
And my
Please, with all of you tonight,
Is that?
You would not
Spend your life trying to evade Jesus.
Instead
Deal with Jesus the way of the wise men
Verse 11
Going into the house.
They saw the child with Mary, his mother,
And they fell down,
And worshiped
Falling down.
Signifies
Submission
And worship signifies
Treasuring,
You submit to him.
As your king
And you worship him as your
Treasure. that's the way of the wise men.
It's a huge change in life.
When that happens
None of us is born this way.
Every one of us must change
From the from the.
Herod way
To the wise men way.
It's called by Jesus' new birth.
When it happens
You become
A beneficiary of Christmas
Design Christmas purpose
And a few chapters later in matthew
Jesus tells us why there's Christmas and why he came.
And what the design is
The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve.
And to give his life
As a ransom for many
That's the best news in all the world for people like us.
For two reasons
One reason is that every one of us in this room tonight, doesn't matter where you're sitting and who you are,
Every one of us in this room tonight is under the guilt and bondage of
Of our own sinfulness against god
We have a debt.
And we cannot
Pay it.
You know you have a debt.
You know you cannot pay. It's the witness of your conscience every late night when you're honest.
That's why it's the best news in the world to hear
God incarnate
Jesus Christ, God in the flesh,
Look you in the eye and say, I came to pay it.
I came to pay it.
To give my life a ransom for many.
That's why i came that's the meaning of christmas
Here's the reason number two why it's the best news in the world
When we experience the forgiveness and the liberation, the freedom,
Through that ransom,
We become beneficiaries
For the rest of our lives and into eternity.
Of the service
Christ on our behalf.
He works for us omnipotence
Works for us
The Son of Man came.
not to be served
But to serve
Meaning
Through all the pleasures,
And through all the pain,
Of your life
God in Christ
Is working
To bring you to everlasting happiness
In the presence of god.
This is the good news of great joy that the angels sang about.
And it's yours tonight.
If
You will renounce
The way of Herod,
Getting rid of Jesus, evading Jesus.
And embrace the way
Of the wise men,
The next song that we're going to sing
in the bleak midwinter
Ends on a note
That will provide you with the
Perfect moment in the pilgrimage of your life,
To do what the wise men did.
On that last note of this song
you will be able to look Jesus in the eye
With your hearts
Eyes
And say
I surrender.
My heart is no longer my own.
My heart belongs to you.
I bow down
And I worship you.
as my King.
And my treasure.
And I pray that God would grant us all, every one of us,
In this room the grace
To do that.